Azure Metrics Source doc (#4586)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/microsoft-source/azure-metrics-source.md

title: Azure Metrics Source
sidebar_label: Azure Metrics Source
description: Learn how to collect Azure metrics.
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import ExampleJSON from '/files/c2c/azure-metrics/example.json';
import MyComponentSource from '!!raw-loader!/files/c2c/azure-metrics/example.json';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<head>
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

<p><a href="/docs/beta"><span className="beta">Beta</span></a></p>

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-event-hub.svg')} alt="icon" width="40"/>

Azure Metrics Source is used to collect all available metrics from Azure Monitor into Sumo Logic. To obtain a complete list of metrics that are collected using this source, refer to the [Azure Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/reference/metrics-index#supported-metrics-and-log-categories-by-resource-type).

## Setup

### Vendor configuration

The Azure Metrics Source requires you to provide **Tenant Id**, **Client Id**, and **Client Secret** while configuring. To obtain these values, follow the below steps:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).

> 1. Navigate to Sumo Logic's [Custom Deployment wizard]](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/CustomDeploymentBlade/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FRoleAssignmentSubscriptions.json/createUIDefinitionUri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FCreateUIDefSubscriptions.json).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to Sumo Logic's [Custom Deployment wizard](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/CustomDeploymentBlade/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FRoleAssignmentSubscriptions.json/createUIDefinitionUri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FCreateUIDefSubscriptions.json).
```

1. In the **Custom Deployment** page, under **Basics** tab, select the **Subscription**, **Resource Group**, and **Region** in which to deploy the Application, then click **Next**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/basics.png')} alt="basics" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/>
1. Under the **App Registration** tab:<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/app-registration.png')} alt="app-registration" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/> 
    1. Select service principal type as **Create new** to create a new app.

>     1. Click **Change selection**, to enter the name and select **Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID tenant - Multitenant)** as supported account types. Click **Register** to register the application.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/register.png')} alt="register" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="400"/> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Click **Change selection** to enter the name and select **Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID tenant - Multitenant)** as supported account types. Click **Register** to register the application.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/register.png')} alt="register" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="400"/> 
```

1. In the re-directed **Certificates & secrets** page, under **Client secrets** tab, click **+ New client secret**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/new-client-secret.png')} alt="new-client-secret" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="600"/> 
        1. **Description**. Enter the description of your choice.

>         1. **Expires**. From the dropdown select the expiry time period to the secret value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        1. **Expires**. From the dropdown, select the expiry time period to the secret value.
```

        1. Copy and save the **Value**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/client-secrets.png')} alt="client-secrets" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="600"/>   
1. Navigate to **Overview**, copy and save the **Application (client) ID** and **Directory (tenant) ID**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/overview.png')} alt="overview" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="600"/>  
1. Close the **Overviews** page to go back to the **Custom Deployment** page.
1. Enter the copied **Value** in the **Client secret** section, then click **Next**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/add-client-secret.png')} alt="add-client-secret" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/>  
1. Under **Subscription** tab, select the subscriptions from which you would like to collect metrics, then click **Next**. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/subscriptions.png')} alt="subscriptions" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/>  

> 1. Click **Review + Create**, you will be navigated to **Review + Create** tab. Review the details and click **Create**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/create.png')} alt="create" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Review + Create**. On the **Review + Create** tab review the details and click **Create**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/create.png')} alt="create" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/> 
```

---
id: azure-metrics-source
title: Azure Metrics Source
sidebar_label: Azure Metrics Source

> description: Learn to collect Azure Metrics source.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to collect Azure metrics.
```

---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import ExampleJSON from '/files/c2c/azure-metrics/example.json';
import MyComponentSource from '!!raw-loader!/files/c2c/azure-metrics/example.json';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<head>
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

<p><a href="/docs/beta"><span className="beta">Beta</span></a></p>

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-event-hub.svg')} alt="icon" width="40"/>

Azure Metrics Source is used to collect all available metrics from Azure Monitor into Sumo Logic. To obtain a complete list of metrics that are collected using this source, refer to the [Azure Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/reference/metrics-index#supported-metrics-and-log-categories-by-resource-type).

## Setup

### Vendor configuration

The Azure Metrics Source requires you to provide **Tenant Id**, **Client Id**, and **Client Secret** while configuring. To obtain these values, follow the below steps:

> 1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/CustomDeploymentBlade/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FRoleAssignmentSubscriptions.json/createUIDefinitionUri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FCreateUIDefSubscriptions.json).

Reviewer 3: Maisie just gave feedback that we can probably separate this into two steps:
```
1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure./com)
2. Navigate to Sumo Logic's [Custom Deployment wizard](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/CustomDeploymentBlade/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FRoleAssignmentSubscriptions.json/createUIDefinitionUri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FSumoLogic%2Fsumologic-azure-serverless%2Fmain%2FAzureMetrics%2FCreateUIDefSubscriptions.json).
3. Under the **Basics** tab, ...
```

Reviewer 4: Typo: `https://portal.azure.com`

Author: updated!

1. In the **Custom Deployment** page, under **Basics** tab, select the **Subscription**, **Resource Group**, and **Region** in which to deploy the Application, then click **Next**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/basics.png')} alt="basics" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/>
1. Under the **App Registration** tab:<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/app-registration.png')} alt="app-registration" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="500"/> 
    1. Select service principal type as **Create new** to create a new app.
    1. Click **Change selection**, to enter the name and select **Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID tenant - Multitenant)** as supported account types. Click **Register** to register the application.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/register.png')} alt="register" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="400"/> 

> 1. In the re-directed **Certificates & secrets** page, under **Client sectrets** tab, click **+ New client secret**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/new-client-secret.png')} alt="new-client-secret" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="600"/> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the re-directed **Certificates & secrets** page, under **Client secrets** tab, click **+ New client secret**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/new-client-secret.png')} alt="new-client-secret" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="600"/> 
```

        1. **Description**. Enter the description of your choice.
        1. **Expires**. From the dropdown select the expiry time period to the secret value. 
1. Navigate to **Overview**, copy and save the **Application (client) ID** and **Directory (tenant) ID**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/overview.png')} alt="overview" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="600"/>  

> 1. Under **Manage**, navigate to **Certificates & secrets** page, copy and save the **Value**.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-metrics-source/client-secrets.png')} alt="client-secrets" style={{border:'1px solid gray'}} width="600"/>   

Reviewer 4: Nit: Should we ask customer to copy and save client secrets first before they navigate to Overview? Customer can save one route to the secrets page. @samjsong

Reviewer 4: Should we also mention here that client secret will be later used in source configuration?

Reviewer 3: > Should we also mention here that client secret will be later used in source configuration?

I think we could do this, but I don't feel strongly about it either way since we mention it on Line 27 that the purpose of these steps is to get these three values.

> Should we ask customer to copy and save client secrets first before they navigate to Overview? Customer can save one route to the secrets page.

This makes sense to me. @JV0812 Can we combine step 4 and step 6, so that customer can just create the secret (step 4) and then immediately save it (step 6)?

Author: updated!

1. On the collectors page, click **Add Source** next to a Hosted Collector.
1. Search for and select **Azure Metrics** icon.
1. Enter a **Name** to display for the source in the Sumo Logic web application. The description is optional.
1. (Optional) For **Source Category**, enter any string to tag the output collected from the source. Category metadata is stored in a searchable field called `_sourceCategory`.
1. (Optional) **Fields**. Click the **+Add Field** link to define the fields you want to associate. Each field needs a name (key) and value.
   * ![green check circle.png](/img/reuse/green-check-circle.png) A green circle with a check mark is shown when the field exists in the Fields table schema.
   * ![orange exclamation point.png](/img/reuse/orange-exclamation-point.png) An orange triangle with an exclamation point is shown when the field doesn't exist in the Fields table schema. In this case, an option to automatically add the nonexistent fields to the Fields table schema is provided. If a field is sent to Sumo Logic that does not exist in the Fields schema it is ignored, known as dropped.

> 1. **Tenant Id**. Enter the Tenant ID collected from [Azure platform](#vendor-configuration).

Reviewer 4: `Tenant Id` to be consistent

Author: updated!

1. **Azure Namespaces**. Select **All Namespaces**, if you want to collect metrics with all namespaces. Or, click **Select Namespaces** to select the namespaces of your choice from the dropdown to collect metrics.
1. **Tags Filter**. Select any tag filter from the dropdown to enforce it with the each namespace. This helps you to further fine-tune from which resources you would like to collect metrics.
1. **Scan Interval**.  This option sets how often the source is scanned. Setting a shorter frequency increases message volume, and can cause your deployment to incur additional charges. The minimum acceptable scan interval is 1 minute.
1. **Processing Rules for Metrics (Optional)**. Configure any desired filters, such as allowlist and denylist, as described in [Metrics Include and Exclude Rules](/docs/send-data/collection/processing-rules/metrics-include-and-exclude-rules).

## JSON Configuration

Sources can be configured using UTF-8 encoded JSON files with the Collector Management API. See [how to use JSON to configure Sources](/docs/send-data/use-json-configure-sources) for details. 

| Parameter | Type | Value | Required | Description |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|

> | schemaRef | JSON Object  | `{"type":"Azure Metrics"}` | Yes | Define the specific schema type. |

Reviewer 3: Relatedly, `config` is not a parameter for the JSON either.

Instead I think we can remove this section, and move `sourceType` row to the `Configuration Object` table instead

> | schemaRef | JSON Object  | `{"type":"Azure Metrics"}` | Yes | Define the specific schema type. |

Author: @samjsong Can we remove even the source type as well as the `Configuration Object` section only talk about the JSON parameters.

> | schemaRef | JSON Object  | `{"type":"Azure Metrics"}` | Yes | Define the specific schema type. |

Reviewer 3: Yes I think this is fine. Thank you

| sourceType | String | `"Polling"` | Yes | Type of source. |
| config | JSON Object | [Configuration object](#configuration-object) | Yes | Source type specific values. |

### Configuration Object

| Parameter | Type | Required | Default | Description | Example |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| name | String | Yes | `null` | Type a desired name of the source. The name must be unique per Collector. This value is assigned to the [metadata](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-basics/built-in-metadata) field `_source`. | `"mySource"` |
| description | String | No | `null` | Type a description of the source. | `"Testing source"`
| category | String | No | `null` | Type a category of the source. This value is assigned to the [metadata](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-basics/built-in-metadata) field `_sourceCategory`. See [best practices](/docs/send-data/best-practices) for details. | `"mySource/test"`
| fields | JSON Object | No | `null` | JSON map of key-value fields (metadata) to apply to the Collector or Source. Use the boolean field `_siemForward` to enable forwarding to SIEM.|`{"_siemForward": false, "fieldA": "valueA"}` |

> | environment | String | No | `null` | Type of environment from which you would like to collect metrics. | |

Reviewer 3: `environment` is required

Author: updated!

> | limitToRegions | Array | No | `null` | Enter the region or select all regions from which you want to collect metrics. | |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| limitToRegions | Array | No | `null` | Specify the regions from which you want to collect metrics. To collect from all regions, leave `null`. | |
```

> | limitToNamespaces | Array | No | `null` | Enter the namespace or select all namespace with which you want to collect metrics.| |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| limitToNamespaces | Array | No | `null` | Specify the namespaces from which you want to collect metrics. To collect from all namespaces, leave `null`. | |
```

> | tagFilters | JSON Object | No | `null` | Enter tag filter of your choice to enforce it with the each namespace.| |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| tagFilters | JSON Object | No | `null` | For each namespace, if defined, the source will only collect metrics for resources that match the tag filter. | |
```

| tenantId | String | No | `null` | Enter the tenant ID collected from the Azure platform. | |
| clientId | String | No | `null` | Enter the client ID collected from the Azure platform.| |

> | clientSecret | String | No | `null` | Enter the client secret collected from the Azure platform.| |

Reviewer 3: These authentication parameters (`tenantId`, `clientId`, `clientSecret` are required

Author: updated!
